doc/TESTING.md, before:

# Lists - testing notes

## Validation

The Python code was developed with continuous PEP 8 validation, and produces no warnings.

## Testing

The code produces text with every interaction, so every class and function could be validated automatically with unit tests. However, project time didn't permit to write them alongside the code. Instead, the manual testing procedures will be described below.

### UI state and display layout

Procedure:

1.  Start the app and observe the initial screen,
2.  Enter a list with a list index ("1" command),
3.  Observe the task view layout,
4.  Return back to list view with the "back" command,
5.  Enter the settings with the "settings" command,
6.  Observe the settings layout,
7.  Type in "exit".

Expected:

State change commands enter the correct screens. "exit" stops the app with no way to continue other than restarting it. The layout is clear, and no text is overwritten by overlap, regardless of what content is created by the user.

Actual:

#1

![Screenshot of the initial screen](testing/layout-1.png)

#2, #3

![Screenshot of the task view](testing/layout-2.png)

#4, #5, #6

![Screenshot of the settings](testing/layout-3.png)

#7

![Screenshot of the exited app](testing/layout-4.png)

The commands work as expected, and the layout is clear and correct.

### Command processing

Procedure:

1.  Try to execute a command with too many parameters (such as "exit foo",)
2.  Try to execute a command with missing parameters (such as "rename 1",)
3.  Try to execute a command with non-integer index (such as "remove foo",)
4.  Try to execute a command with index out of range (such as "remove 999",)
5.  Try to execute a command in the context where it doesn't exist (such as "load" in task view,)
6.  Try to execute an empty command.

Expected:

All of the above checks return a clear error message in red above the prompt, and allow the user to continue using the app.

Actual:

#1

![Screenshot of too many parameters error](testing/commands-1.png)

#2

![Screenshot of missing parameters error](testing/commands-2.png)

#3

![Screenshot of invalid index error](testing/commands-3.png)

#4

![Screenshot of out of range index error](testing/commands-4.png)

#5

![Screenshot of unknown command error](testing/commands-5.png)

#6

![Screenshot of empty command text](testing/commands-6.png)

The errors are returned as expected.

### List management

Procedure:

1.  Add a new list with the "add" command,
2.  Rename a list with the "rename" command,
3.  Remove a list with the "remove" command.

Expected:

The above commands have their obvious result.

Actual:

#1

![Screenshot of adding a list](testing/lists-1.png)

#2

![Screenshot of renaming a list](testing/lists-2.png)

#3

![Screenshot of removing a list](testing/lists-3.png)

The commands are working correctly.

### Task management

Procedure:

1.  In list view, add a task with the "add" command,
2.  Rename a task with the "rename" command,
3.  Remove a task with the "remove" command,
4.  Mark a task as done with the "done" command,
5.  Unmark a done task with the "done" command again,
6.  Mark task as priority with the "prio" command,
7.  Unmark a task as priority with the "prio" command again.

Expected:

The above commands have their obvious result.

Actual:

#1

![Screenshot of adding a task](testing/tasks-1.png)

#2

![Screenshot of renaming a task](testing/tasks-2.png)

#3

![Screenshot of removing a task](testing/tasks-3.png)

#4

![Screenshot of marking a task as done](testing/tasks-4.png)

#5

![Screenshot of unmarking a task as done](testing/tasks-5.png)

#6

![Screenshot of marking a task as priority](testing/tasks-6.png)

#7

![Screenshot of unmarking a task as priority](testing/tasks-7.png)

The commands are working correctly.

### Help command

Procedure:

1.  Type in "help" to show general help,
2.  Exit the help screen with any input,
3.  Type in "help add" to show help about a specific command,
4.  Exit the help screen again,
5.  Type in "help foo". 

Expected:

Help text appears correctly, doesn't need scrolling or break the layout of the result text and prompt sticking to the bottom edge. Help for a nonexistent command displays a clear error message.

Actual:

#1

![Screenshot of general help text](testing/help-1.png)

#2, #3

![Screenshot of "add" command help text](testing/help-2.png)

#4, #5

![Screenshot of help for nonexistent command error](testing/help-3.png)

Help text is shown and commands work as expected.

### Settings

Procedure:

1.  In the settings, type in "set 1 foo",
2.  Type in "set 3 foo",
3.  Set "show done tasks" to "hidden" with "set 1 hidden",
4.  Leave settings and confirm that done tasks are now displayed as "===".

Expected:

Settings are shown and can be modified with the "set" command. The change has immediate effect. An error message is thrown if the index or the value are invalid.

Actual:

#1

![Screenshot of settings error about invalid value](testing/settings-1.png)

#2

![Screenshot of settings error about invalid index](testing/settings-2.png)

#3

![Screenshot of changed "Show done tasks" setting](testing/settings-3.png)

#4

![Screenshot of the effect of the changed setting](testing/settings-4.png)

Commands are working as expected.

### Dropbox integration

Procedure:

1.  Type in "connect",
2.  Type in "foo" as the authorization code,
3.  Type in "connect" again and follow the account linking procedure according to screen instructions,
4.  Type in "save",
5.  Remove a list,
6.  Type in "load".

Expected:

Dropbox account link is functional, and displays an error in case of failure. Successful linking enables the "save" and "load" commands. The commands upload and download data from Dropbox, respectively.

Actual:

#1

![Screenshot of the Dropbox wizard](testing/dropbox-1.png)

#2

![Screenshot of the Dropbox connection error](testing/dropbox-2.png)

#3

![Screenshot of successful Dropbox connection and added commands](testing/dropbox-3.png)

#4

![Screenshot of uploaded lists](testing/dropbox-4.png)

#5

![Screenshot of removing a list](testing/dropbox-5.png)

#6

![Screenshot of loading the lists](testing/dropbox-6.png)

Dropbox functionality works correctly as expected.

## User stories study

In the design phase, we [established](DESIGN.md#user-stories) the expected user-base and what kinds of questions they might have when using the app. We will check if their questions are answered by the completed project.

| Question                                | Answered? | How?                                                                                                                             |
|-----------------------------------------|-----------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| How do I add an item?                   | Yes       | Answered by the sidebar listing the "add" command in list view, and help functionality.                                          |
| How do I mark an item as completed?     | Yes       | Same as above, with "done" command in task view.                                                                                 |
| Can I create multiple lists?            | Yes       | Yes, implied by the existence of the "add" command in list view.                                                                 |
| Are my lists being backed up somewhere? | Yes       | Answered by the exit command warning if Dropbox isn't connected, urging the user to make the connection and back up their lists. |

Commit message:

Add testing for too many lists/tasks

doc/TESTING.md, after:

# Lists - testing notes

## Validation

The Python code was developed with continuous PEP 8 validation, and produces no warnings.

## Testing

The code produces text with every interaction, so every class and function could be validated automatically with unit tests. However, project time didn't permit to write them alongside the code. Instead, the manual testing procedures will be described below.

### UI state and display layout

Procedure:

1.  Start the app and observe the initial screen,
2.  Enter a list with a list index ("1" command),
3.  Observe the task view layout,
4.  Return back to list view with the "back" command,
5.  Enter the settings with the "settings" command,
6.  Observe the settings layout,
7.  Type in "exit".

Expected:

State change commands enter the correct screens. "exit" stops the app with no way to continue other than restarting it. The layout is clear, and no text is overwritten by overlap, regardless of what content is created by the user.

Actual:

#1

![Screenshot of the initial screen](testing/layout-1.png)

#2, #3

![Screenshot of the task view](testing/layout-2.png)

#4, #5, #6

![Screenshot of the settings](testing/layout-3.png)

#7

![Screenshot of the exited app](testing/layout-4.png)

The commands work as expected, and the layout is clear and correct.

### Command processing

Procedure:

1.  Try to execute a command with too many parameters (such as "exit foo",)
2.  Try to execute a command with missing parameters (such as "rename 1",)
3.  Try to execute a command with non-integer index (such as "remove foo",)
4.  Try to execute a command with index out of range (such as "remove 999",)
5.  Try to execute a command in the context where it doesn't exist (such as "load" in task view,)
6.  Try to execute an empty command.

Expected:

All of the above checks return a clear error message in red above the prompt, and allow the user to continue using the app.

Actual:

#1

![Screenshot of too many parameters error](testing/commands-1.png)

#2

![Screenshot of missing parameters error](testing/commands-2.png)

#3

![Screenshot of invalid index error](testing/commands-3.png)

#4

![Screenshot of out of range index error](testing/commands-4.png)

#5

![Screenshot of unknown command error](testing/commands-5.png)

#6

![Screenshot of empty command text](testing/commands-6.png)

The errors are returned as expected.

### List management

Procedure:

1.  Add a new list with the "add" command,
2.  Rename a list with the "rename" command,
3.  Remove a list with the "remove" command,
4.  Try to add too many lists to fit in the layout.

Expected:

The above commands have their obvious result.

Actual:

#1

![Screenshot of adding a list](testing/lists-1.png)

#2

![Screenshot of renaming a list](testing/lists-2.png)

#3

![Screenshot of removing a list](testing/lists-3.png)

#4

![Screenshot of too many lists error](testing/lists-4.png)

The commands are working correctly.

### Task management

Procedure:

1.  In list view, add a task with the "add" command,
2.  Rename a task with the "rename" command,
3.  Remove a task with the "remove" command,
4.  Mark a task as done with the "done" command,
5.  Unmark a done task with the "done" command again,
6.  Mark task as priority with the "prio" command,
7.  Unmark a task as priority with the "prio" command again,
8. Try to add too many tasks to fit in the layout.

Expected:

The above commands have their obvious result.

Actual:

#1

![Screenshot of adding a task](testing/tasks-1.png)

#2

![Screenshot of renaming a task](testing/tasks-2.png)

#3

![Screenshot of removing a task](testing/tasks-3.png)

#4

![Screenshot of marking a task as done](testing/tasks-4.png)

#5

![Screenshot of unmarking a task as done](testing/tasks-5.png)

#6

![Screenshot of marking a task as priority](testing/tasks-6.png)

#7

![Screenshot of unmarking a task as priority](testing/tasks-7.png)

#8

![Screenshot of too many tasks error](testing/tasks-8.png)

The commands are working correctly.

### Help command

Procedure:

1.  Type in "help" to show general help,
2.  Exit the help screen with any input,
3.  Type in "help add" to show help about a specific command,
4.  Exit the help screen again,
5.  Type in "help foo". 

Expected:

Help text appears correctly, doesn't need scrolling or break the layout of the result text and prompt sticking to the bottom edge. Help for a nonexistent command displays a clear error message.

Actual:

#1

![Screenshot of general help text](testing/help-1.png)

#2, #3

![Screenshot of "add" command help text](testing/help-2.png)

#4, #5

![Screenshot of help for nonexistent command error](testing/help-3.png)

Help text is shown and commands work as expected.

### Settings

Procedure:

1.  In the settings, type in "set 1 foo",
2.  Type in "set 3 foo",
3.  Set "show done tasks" to "hidden" with "set 1 hidden",
4.  Leave settings and confirm that done tasks are now displayed as "===".

Expected:

Settings are shown and can be modified with the "set" command. The change has immediate effect. An error message is thrown if the index or the value are invalid.

Actual:

#1

![Screenshot of settings error about invalid value](testing/settings-1.png)

#2

![Screenshot of settings error about invalid index](testing/settings-2.png)

#3

![Screenshot of changed "Show done tasks" setting](testing/settings-3.png)

#4

![Screenshot of the effect of the changed setting](testing/settings-4.png)

Commands are working as expected.

### Dropbox integration

Procedure:

1.  Type in "connect",
2.  Type in "foo" as the authorization code,
3.  Type in "connect" again and follow the account linking procedure according to screen instructions,
4.  Type in "save",
5.  Remove a list,
6.  Type in "load".

Expected:

Dropbox account link is functional, and displays an error in case of failure. Successful linking enables the "save" and "load" commands. The commands upload and download data from Dropbox, respectively.

Actual:

#1

![Screenshot of the Dropbox wizard](testing/dropbox-1.png)

#2

![Screenshot of the Dropbox connection error](testing/dropbox-2.png)

#3

![Screenshot of successful Dropbox connection and added commands](testing/dropbox-3.png)

#4

![Screenshot of uploaded lists](testing/dropbox-4.png)

#5

![Screenshot of removing a list](testing/dropbox-5.png)

#6

![Screenshot of loading the lists](testing/dropbox-6.png)

Dropbox functionality works correctly as expected.

## User stories study

In the design phase, we [established](DESIGN.md#user-stories) the expected user-base and what kinds of questions they might have when using the app. We will check if their questions are answered by the completed project.

| Question                                | Answered? | How?                                                                                                                             |
|-----------------------------------------|-----------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| How do I add an item?                   | Yes       | Answered by the sidebar listing the "add" command in list view, and help functionality.                                          |
| How do I mark an item as completed?     | Yes       | Same as above, with "done" command in task view.                                                                                 |
| Can I create multiple lists?            | Yes       | Yes, implied by the existence of the "add" command in list view.                                                                 |
| Are my lists being backed up somewhere? | Yes       | Answered by the exit command warning if Dropbox isn't connected, urging the user to make the connection and back up their lists. |
